Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (NMR)

X-Ray

MS

Labeling techniques like

SILAC

Di-methyl

TMT

iTRAQ

Carbon has 3 isotopes:

Isotopes are variants of a particular chemical element which differ in neutron number, and consequently in nucleon number.

Carbon12 (6 Protons 6 Neutrons)

Carbon13 (6 Protons 7 Neutrons) very important for mass-spectrometry

Carbon14 (6 Protons 8 Neutrons)

Mass of Peptide can be calculate from a sequence

Mass spectrometry measure mass of molecules and it charge. It use two parameters for identification.

Mass/charge = m/z ratio

1 Da - The unified atomic mass unit or dalton is a standard unit of mass that quantifies mass on an atomic or molecular scale (atomic mass).

Peptide Mass Fingerprinting(PMF) - high throughput protein identification technique in which the mass of an unknown protein can be identified.

Find matches between MS peptide masses and Database Peptide masses

Pipeline:

1. Protein Separation in Gel Electrophoresis

2. Digestion of proteins to small peptides. By using trypsin enzyme.Protein fragment often generated by trypsin.

3. Mass Spectrometry. Produce a list of molecular weights of the fragments(peak list)

4. In silico digestion of DB proteins and generation of theoretical peak list.

5. Comparsion of peak list and theoretical peak list to get best match.

Disadvantages:

- The protein sequences need to be present in the database

- Fails to identify mixture protein

- If peptides containing post-translational modifications may not correctly identified

Unique chemical structure gives a unique mass that is a diagnostic of a molecule.

Cut up by specific proteases(trypsin it cuts off Lysine and Arginine) after measuring the masses of the produced peptides